+++
date = "2016-06-25T07:20:34-05:00"
draft = false
title = "5 HubSpot’s COS Best Tools that Can Power Your Social Media Strategies"
url = "/social-media-tools"
author = "Denis Lunev"
image = "/img/2016-06-26-hubspot-social/cover.png"
categories = ["HubSpot"]
+++

Developing a website (and ultimately a blog) is the first step towards
reaching out to the majority of customers. However, expanding your
online capabilities to reach out to social media users can help you
promote your bottom line. It’s a fact that social media marketing has
revolutionized the whole of the marketing landscape.

One way the social media platforms can promote your bottom line is by
helping you to interact with your customers. When you go through the
tweets and Facebook updates, you’ll be in a position to understand your
customer base—what’s commonly known as persona profile in digital
marketing. Once you understand your persona profile, you’ll be in a
position to craft strategies that address their needs.

As a marketer, you should look out for the best tools that can help
power your social media marketing strategies. In “5 HubSpot’s COS Best
Tools that Can Power Your Social Media Strategies” we explore some of
the best marketing automation tools that can help power your social
media marketing strategies. Let’s dive in.

HubSpot’s tools for enhanced social media marketing
---------------------------------------------------

Here are the best 5 tools that you can use on your HubSpot for enhanced
social media marketing:

### \#1: Social Media Inbox

<img src="/img/2016-06-26-hubspot-social/image1.png" class="blog-image" />

If you share tons of content on social media platforms, remembering
login information for all your clients can be a herculean task. Instead
of logging in manually to each of your social media platforms (Facebook,
Twitter, Google + and Instagram), the HubSpot’s Social Inbox can help
you organize these accounts.

The HubSpot’s Social Inbox is a powerful and intelligent social media
tool that connects to your entire contacts in the database and merges
them with social media interactions in your organization. When you use
this tool, you will be in a position to not only publish to all your
social media platform accounts, but you also monitor various
interactions with any customer in the database.

Besides, you’ll also automate the process of setting up your social
Inbox which can send you alerts and other push notifications when one of
the leads mentions your competitor on social media platforms. With these
alerts, you may respond directly with a link to the blog article so that
you demonstrate that your organization can offer better services
compared to your opponent.

### \#2: Social Monitoring

<img src="/img/2016-06-26-hubspot-social/image2.png" class="blog-image" />

An effective digital marketing strategy is one that allows a marketer to
connect with customers at a personalized level. Remember, understanding
your buyer persona profile is key to crafting strategies that creates
products/services that address their needs. When you incorporate the
HubSpot’s Social media monitoring tool, you’ll be able to listen to
Twitter conversations that are relevant to the growth of your business.

In essence, the Social Monitoring tool helps you to track all the
Twitter messages, follow all the contact lists, and respond to all your
social media updates. In fact, you can now create streams and interact
with all your prospects, leads and customers.

### \#3: Social Media Publishing

<img src="/img/2016-06-26-hubspot-social/image3.png" class="blog-image" />

The HubSpot’s Social Publishing tool allows you to post to all the
social media accounts in your organization. Remember sharing the content
with your prospects, leads and customers is one way to generate traffic
on your blog or website. Therefore, any social media marketing strategy
must involve content sharing.

With this tool, you can attach links to all your blog posts, images,
landing pages and other types of content. By attaching links to all the
content you’re creating, you can promote your social media content to
all your leads and customers.

### \#4: Social Media Reporting

<img src="/img/2016-06-26-hubspot-social/image4.png" class="blog-image" />

You've scheduled and published your social media content. You’ve gone
ahead to engage with your social media followers. So, what next? You
need to evaluate the effectiveness of your marketing campaign. Social
media reporting can help your measure how your marketing efforts.

For instance, you may want to compare the social media activities
between the current month and the previous month for different social
media platforms. Also, finding out which social media platform is
outperforming others. Fortunately, the HubSpot’s Social Media Reporting
can help you evaluate the effectiveness of your marketing efforts.

### \#5: Social Media Settings

<img src="/img/2016-06-26-hubspot-social/image5.png" class="blog-image" />

Different social media platforms require different publishing schedules.
For instance, Facebook may require fewer publications of the same
content on a given day compared to the Twitter. As a marketer, it’s
important to distinguish these publishing schedules. The HubSpot’s
Social Media Settings can help you manage all your social media accounts
and their different publishing schedules.

Even before you start using your HubSpot’s social media tools; it’s
important that you connect all your social media channels to your
HubSpot COS. Since each social media platform will require different
interactions with HubSpot, it’s important that you set up your HubSpot
COS before starting to create and publish content.

Putting it all together
-----------------------

A well-crafted digital marketing strategy must involve social media
marketing. Therefore finding the best tools that can help you manage
your social media content is vital to the success of your marketing
efforts. That’s why you need to incorporate HubSpot’s social media tools
such as Social Inbox, Publishing, Monitoring, Reporting and Settings to
attain your bottom line.