+++
date = "2016-07-15T06:24:27-05:00"
draft = false
title = "Differences between Payment Gateway and a Merchant Account"
url = "/payment-gateway-merchant-account"
author = "Denis Lunev"
image = "/img/gateway/cover.png"
categories = ["Payments"]
+++

Virtually all businesses—from big-box retailers to Etsy merchants, from
trade show merchants to antique sellers—accept payments in the form of
credit cards. And here is the fact: more and more businesses are
accepting online payments in this fast-paced, ever-changing and complex
e-commerce industry.

If you’re already accepting credit card payments from online sales, then
you must be at home with merchant accounts. However, if you’re a newbie
in e-commerce, then you must be grappling to learn about payment
gateways. So, what’s the difference between merchant accounts and
payment gateways?

What is a merchant account?
---------------------------

A merchant account is an online bank account that temporarily holds your
money once payment has been approved by a payment gateway. After a
successful payment, money will stay in your merchant account for a few
days (between 2 to 7 days) after which it will be transferred to your
real bank account.

There are two main types of merchant accounts:

- Dedicated Merchant Account
- Aggregate Merchant Account

### Dedicated Merchant Account

A dedicated Merchant Account provides you with total control over your
funds. For every transaction that’s conducted, the merchant account
provider deducts processing fees and the rest of the money is deposited
into your business account. You can set up your account with payment
gateway systems such as Authorize.Net, PayLeap, and Blue Pay Processing
LLC.

Some of the actions that you can take while using a dedicated merchant
account are:

- Debiting your account in case your customers make charge-back claims
- Correcting the errors in the transactions
- Taking necessary actions in case there’s an evidence of fraudulent activity

### Aggregate Merchant Account

In this type of account, the money that customers pay is pooled with
other companies. For you to open such an account, you must provide
details about your company and the type of products and services that
you’re dealing with. Since the amount of money in your account is pooled
with other companies, you don’t have exclusive control over the account.
In fact, you can’t negotiate the rates when using this account.

What about a payment gateway?
-----------------------------

A payment gateway is an e-commerce application system that permits
credit card payments for e-commerce transactions, online retailing and
traditional brick and mortar transactions. When customers are buying
goods and services from your online store, they fill out their credit
card details during the checkout process.

Your online store will then send the credit card data that has been
entered during the checkout process to the payment gateway to authorize
the transaction and process the payment. During the processing, all the
payment gateway does is to verify whether the information customers have
submitted matches the data that’s available on the credit card. If they
match, then the payment is approved and money is then transferred from
the customer’s account to your merchant account.

Some of the popular payment gateways—that don’t require merchant
accounts—include PayPal, Stripe and Braintree Payments.

The main feature of these payment gateways is that you will not need to
change bank accounts. Or, perform anything special for you to get up
running with the payments processing. Furthermore, it’s easier to
integrate these systems with your online store.

But still, there are downsides too. First, there are higher transaction
charges that you’ll incur when using these payment systems. Second,
virtually all modern payment gateways always send customers to off-sites
while making payments. This often reduces the conversion rates for some
stores.

So, which option is right for your business?
--------------------------------------------

Merchant accounts have been with us for quite some time since the coming
on of credit cards. If you’re a retailer that sells primarily from the
brick and mortar stores, then setting up a merchant account can help you
increase your cash flows in the business.

On the other hand, the payment gateways are ideal for e-businesses and
other mobile retailers. When you use this payment gateway, the retailers
can easily enter and approve their credit card details from their mobile
devices.

{{< cta text="Which payment gateway has the smallest fees?" button="Payment Gateways Fee Calculator" link="http://www.depositfix.com/calc/" >}}


Putting it together
-------------------

Adding a payment gateway system or a merchant account to your online
store is a critical part of enhancing your business bottom line. When
you’re ready to accept payments, you can compete favorably in today’s
fast-paced and ever-evolving business environment. I hope this post has
been helpful in your search for the differences between payment gateways
and merchant accounts.